[DX-2370] Revamp Developer Portal: Add Upgrade Guide page under Installation (#1937)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: portal/install/upgrade-guide.mdx

---
title: "Developer Portal Upgrade Guide"
description: "Step-by-step instructions for upgrading the Tyk Developer Portal across Docker, Kubernetes, and Linux deployments."
sidebarTitle: "Upgrade Guide"
keywords: "Developer Portal, Tyk, Upgrade Developer Portal, Portal upgrade, Portal version update"
---

| Edition   | Deployment Type |
| :------------- | :---------------------- |
| Enterprise | Self-Managed, Hybrid, Cloud |

This guide explains how to upgrade the Tyk Developer Portal to a new version. The upgrade process involves replacing the Portal binary or container image, after which the Portal automatically applies any required database migrations on startup. You must also manually upgrade your theme to pick up template changes.

## Before You Upgrade

Complete the following steps before starting the upgrade:

> 1. **Check the [Compatibility Matrix](/portal/overview/compatibility-matrix)** to confirm the new Portal version is compatible with your Tyk Dashboard version.

Author: ```suggestion
{/* 1. **Check the [Compatibility Matrix](/portal/overview/compatibility-matrix)** to confirm the new Portal version is compatible with your Tyk Dashboard version. */}
```

    ```console
    docker pull tykio/portal:<NEW_VERSION>
    ```

3. **Start the Portal container using the new image.** Use the same `docker run` command from your initial installation, updating only the image tag. The Portal applies any required database migrations automatically on startup.

    ```console
    docker run -d \
        -p 3001:3001 \
        --env-file .env \
        --network tyk-portal \
        --name tyk-portal \
        tykio/portal:<NEW_VERSION>
    ```

4. **Verify the Portal has started successfully.** Confirm there are no startup errors before proceeding to post-upgrade verification.

    ```console
    docker logs tyk-portal
    ```

#### Docker Compose

1. **Update the Portal image tag** in your `docker-compose.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    tyk-portal:
      image: tykio/portal:<NEW_VERSION>
    ```

2. **Pull the new image and restart the Portal container.**

    ```console
    docker-compose pull tyk-portal
    docker-compose up -d tyk-portal
    ```

3. **Verify the Portal has started successfully.**

    ```console
    docker-compose logs tyk-portal
    ```

### Kubernetes

> Tyk Stack Helm Chart (`tyk-dev-portal`)

Reviewer: Is this the Tyk Stack chart, or the Tyk Portal chart?

Author: Tyk Portal chart

> #### Developer Portal Helm Chart (`tyk-dev-portal`)

Author: ```suggestion
[Developer Portal Helm Chart](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts/tree/main/components/tyk-dev-portal) (`tyk-dev-portal`)
```

1. **Update the Portal image tag** in your `values.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    image:
      tag: "<NEW_VERSION>"
    ```

2. **Run the Helm upgrade.**

    ```console
    helm upgrade tyk-dev-portal tyk-helm/tyk-dev-portal \
      -f values.yaml \
      -n tyk
    ```

>     If the Portal is deployed as part of the full Tyk Stack chart, update `global.components.devPortal.image.tag` and run:

Author: ```suggestion
    If the Portal is deployed as part of the full [Tyk Stack chart](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts/tree/main/tyk-stack), update `global.components.devPortal.image.tag` and run:
```

    ```console
    helm upgrade tyk tyk-helm/tyk-stack \
      -f values.yaml \
      -n tyk
    ```

3. **Watch the rollout.**

    ```console
    kubectl rollout status deployment/<portal-deployment-name> -n tyk
    ```

4. **Check the logs for startup errors.**

    ```console
    kubectl logs -f <portal-pod-name> -n tyk
    ```

<Note>
If the Portal pod restarts before startup completes, particularly after a theme upgrade, increase the `initialDelaySeconds` value in your readiness and liveness probe configuration to at least 60 seconds. 

A smaller value may cause Kubernetes to mark the pod as unhealthy and restart it before the application has finished initializing.
</Note>

### Linux

#### Red Hat / CentOS

1. **Download the new Portal RPM package** from [packagecloud.io](https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal). Replace `<VERSION>` with the target version.

    ```console
    wget --content-disposition "https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal/packages/<distro-type>/<distro-version>/portal_<VERSION>_1.x86_64.rpm/download.rpm?distro_version_id=284"
    ```

2. **Upgrade the installed package.**

    ```console
    sudo rpm -Uvh portal-<VERSION>-1.x86_64.rpm
    ```

> 3. **Review the Portal configuration file** at `/opt/portal/portal.conf`. Consult the release notes for any new configuration options required by the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Review the Portal configuration file** at `/opt/portal/portal.conf`. Consult the release notes for any changes to configuration options required by the new version.
```

4. **Restart the Portal service.**

    ```console
    sudo systemctl restart portal.service
    ```

5. **Check the service status.**

    ```console
    systemctl status portal.service
    ```

#### Ubuntu / Debian

1. **Download the new Portal DEB package** from [packagecloud.io](https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal). Replace `<VERSION>` with the target version.

    ```console
    wget --content-disposition "https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal/packages/<distro-type>/<distro-version>/portal_<VERSION>_amd64.deb/download.deb?distro_version_id=284"
    ```

2. **Install the new package.** `dpkg -i` replaces the existing installation.

    ```console
    sudo dpkg -i portal_<VERSION>_amd64.deb
    ```

> 3. **Review the Portal configuration file** at `/opt/portal/portal.conf`. Consult the release notes for any new configuration options required by the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Review the Portal configuration file** at `/opt/portal/portal.conf`. Consult the release notes for any changes to configuration options required by the new version.
```

4. **Restart the Portal service.**

    ```console
    sudo systemctl restart portal.service
    ```

5. **Check the service status.**

    ```console
    systemctl status portal.service
    ```

## Upgrade Your Theme

The Developer Portal does not automatically update the default theme when the Portal is upgraded, to prevent overwriting your customizations. After every Portal upgrade, you must check whether the new version includes theme changes and merge them into your custom theme.

See [Upgrading Themes](/portal/customization/themes#upgrading-themes) for the full procedure.

<Warning>
Skipping the theme upgrade after a Portal version bump can cause template rendering errors, UI breakages on the live portal, or failed authentication flows. Always upgrade your theme as part of the portal upgrade process.
</Warning>

## Post-Upgrade Verification

After the Portal has started, confirm the following before directing traffic to the upgraded instance:

1. **Admin Portal is accessible.** Log in at `http://<your-portal-host>:<port>/portal-admin`.

{/* TODO: Screenshot — Admin Portal login page */}

> 2. **API sync is working.** Navigate to **Providers** in the Admin Portal and confirm your providers show a healthy sync status. If sync fails after upgrade, check whether any policies in Tyk Dashboard reference API IDs that no longer exist. A stale policy referencing a deleted API will abort the entire sync. Delete or correct the affected policy and re-trigger sync. See also [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Provider sync is working.** Navigate to **Providers** in the Admin Portal and confirm your providers show a healthy sync status. If sync fails after upgrade, check whether any policies in Tyk Dashboard reference API IDs that no longer exist. A stale policy referencing a deleted API will abort the entire sync. Delete or correct the affected policy and re-trigger sync. See also [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).
```

---
title: "Developer Portal Upgrade Guide"
description: "Step-by-step instructions for upgrading the Tyk Developer Portal across Docker, Kubernetes, and Linux deployments."
sidebarTitle: "Upgrade Guide"
keywords: "Developer Portal, Tyk, Upgrade Developer Portal, Portal upgrade, Portal version update"
---

| Edition   | Deployment Type |
| :------------- | :---------------------- |
| Enterprise | Self-Managed, Hybrid, Cloud |

This guide explains how to upgrade the Tyk Developer Portal to a new version. The upgrade process involves replacing the Portal binary or container image, after which the Portal automatically applies any required database migrations on startup. You must also manually upgrade your theme to pick up template changes.

## Before You Upgrade

Complete the following steps before starting the upgrade:

> 1. **Check the [Compatibility Matrix](/portal/overview/compatibility-matrix)** to confirm the new Portal version is compatible with your Tyk Dashboard and Gateway versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Check the [Compatibility Matrix](/portal/overview/compatibility-matrix)** to confirm the new Portal version is compatible with your Tyk Dashboard version.
```

Portal consumes the Dashboard API - it doesn't directly interact with Gateways. There is a Dashboard-Gateway dependency, but I don't think that's a matter for Portal to be concerned with (likewise MDCB and other components that Portal doesn't directly touch).

2. **Review the release notes** for every version between your current version and the target version. Pay particular attention to the "Breaking Changes" section. See [Portal Release Notes](/developer-support/release-notes/portal).

> 3. **Back up your database.** The Portal stores all configuration, products, plans, and consumer data in the database. Use the native backup utility for your database engine (PostgreSQL, MySQL, or MariaDB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Back up your database.** The Portal stores its configuration and Product, Plan, and Developer data in the database. Use the native backup utility for your database engine (PostgreSQL, MySQL, or MariaDB).
```

Potentially confusing to say that "Products and Plans ... [are stored] ... in the database" -> the underlying policies are not stored by Portal. This tweak to wording is more accurate.

4. **Back up your theme files.** If you have a custom theme, export it from the Admin Portal or copy the theme directory before upgrading. See [Upgrade Your Theme](#upgrade-your-theme).

    <Warning>

>     Skipping the theme upgrade after a Portal version bump can cause template rendering errors, UI breakages on the live portal, or failed authentication flows. Always upgrade your theme as part of the portal upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Skipping the theme upgrade after a Portal version bump can cause template rendering errors, UI breakages on the Live Portal, or failed authentication flows. Always upgrade your theme as part of the Portal upgrade process.
```

    </Warning>

5. **Note your current Portal version.** You can find this in the Admin Portal under the account settings, or by checking the running container image tag.

{/* TODO: Screenshot — Admin Portal showing the current version number */}

## Upgrade Procedure

### Tyk Cloud

On Tyk Cloud, the Developer Portal upgrade is managed through the Tyk Cloud Console. You do not run Docker or Kubernetes commands directly.

1. **Open the Tyk Cloud Console** and navigate to your deployment settings.

> 2. **Select the target Portal version** from the version dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Select the target Portal version** from the **version** dropdown.
```

4. **Restart the Portal service.**

    ```console
    sudo systemctl restart portal.service
    ```

5. **Check the service status.**

    ```console
    systemctl status portal.service
    ```

#### Ubuntu / Debian

1. **Download the new Portal DEB package** from [packagecloud.io](https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal). Replace `<VERSION>` with the target version.

    ```console
    wget --content-disposition "https://packagecloud.io/tyk/portal/packages/<distro-type>/<distro-version>/portal_<VERSION>_amd64.deb/download.deb?distro_version_id=284"
    ```

2. **Install the new package.** `dpkg -i` replaces the existing installation.

    ```console
    sudo dpkg -i portal_<VERSION>_amd64.deb
    ```

3. **Review the Portal configuration file** at `/opt/portal/portal.conf`. Consult the release notes for any changes to configuration options required by the new version.

4. **Restart the Portal service.**

    ```console
    sudo systemctl restart portal.service
    ```

5. **Check the service status.**

    ```console
    systemctl status portal.service
    ```

## Upgrade Your Theme

> The Developer Portal does not automatically update the default theme when the Portal is upgraded, to prevent overwriting your customizations. After every Portal upgrade, you must check whether the new version includes theme changes and merge them into your custom theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent from accidentally overwriting your customizations, the Developer Portal does not automatically update the default theme when the Portal is upgraded. After every Portal upgrade, you must check whether the new version includes theme changes and merge them into your custom theme.
```

See [Upgrading Themes](/portal/customization/themes#upgrading-themes) for the full procedure.

<Warning>

> Skipping the theme upgrade after a Portal version bump can cause template rendering errors, UI breakages on the live portal, or failed authentication flows. Always upgrade your theme as part of the portal upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skipping the theme upgrade after a Portal version bump can cause template rendering errors, UI breakages on the Live Portal, or failed authentication flows. Always upgrade your theme as part of the portal upgrade process.
```

</Warning>

## Post-Upgrade Verification

After the Portal has started, confirm the following before directing traffic to the upgraded instance:

1. **Admin Portal is accessible.** Log in at `http://<your-portal-host>:<port>/portal-admin`.

{/* TODO: Screenshot — Admin Portal login page */}

> 2. **Provider sync is working.** Navigate to **Providers** in the Admin Portal and confirm your providers show a healthy sync status. If sync fails after upgrade, check whether any policies in Tyk Dashboard reference API IDs that no longer exist. A stale policy referencing a deleted API will abort the entire sync. Delete or correct the affected policy and re-trigger sync. See also [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Provider sync is working.** Navigate to **Providers** in the Admin Portal and confirm your Providers show a healthy sync status. If sync fails after upgrade, check whether any policies in Tyk Dashboard reference API IDs that no longer exist. A stale policy referencing a deleted API will abort the entire sync. Delete or correct the affected policy and re-trigger sync. See also [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).
```

> 3. **Consumer login works.** Open the live portal and verify that existing consumer accounts can log in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Consumer login works.** Open the Live Portal and verify that existing API Consumer users can log in.
```

> 4. **API catalog is visible.** Confirm that published API products are visible to consumers on the live portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **API Catalog is visible.** Confirm that published API Products are visible to users on the Live Portal.
```

> 5. **Theme renders correctly.** Check the live portal for visual regressions or template errors in the browser console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Theme renders correctly.** Check the Live Portal for visual regressions or template errors in the browser console.
```

3. **Start the Portal using the previous image tag.**

    ```console
    docker run -d \
        -p 3001:3001 \
        --env-file .env \
        --network tyk-portal \
        --name tyk-portal \
        tykio/portal:<PREVIOUS_VERSION>
    ```

### Kubernetes

1. **Restore the database** from the backup you took before the upgrade.

2. **Roll back the Helm release.** First, list available revisions:

    ```console
    helm history tyk-dev-portal -n tyk
    ```

    Then roll back to the previous revision:

    ```console
    helm rollback tyk-dev-portal -n tyk
    ```

    To roll back to a specific revision number:

    ```console
    helm rollback tyk-dev-portal <REVISION_NUMBER> -n tyk
    ```

### Linux

1. **Restore the database** from the backup taken before the upgrade.

2. **Downgrade the package** to the previous version.

    On Ubuntu / Debian:

    ```console
    sudo apt-get install tyk-portal=<PREVIOUS_VERSION>
    ```

    On Red Hat / CentOS:

    ```console
    sudo yum downgrade tyk-portal-<PREVIOUS_VERSION>
    ```

3. **Restart the Portal service.**

    ```console
    sudo systemctl restart portal.service
    ```

## Common Upgrade Issues

> For detailed troubleshooting steps for common upgrade failure scenarios, including admin portal inaccessible after upgrade, API sync broken, and consumer login failures, see [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed troubleshooting steps for common upgrade failure scenarios, including Admin Portal inaccessible after upgrade, broken Product and Plan sync, and user login failures, see [Troubleshooting > Upgrade Failures](/portal/troubleshooting/upgrade-failures).
```
